>> Mike North: Here's what
a PushSubscription looks like.
It's got an endpoint and some keys.
The end point as you might suspect tells
us that this is probably from Chrome or
from an Android device maybe, right?
Because that's telling us
where to send this thing,
it's sort of part of the routing.
The key section here helps to push server
understand that we do have permission
to send this user a notification.
So you're gonna need to send both
of those along for the ride.
Now, this is all done for
you behind the scenes.
The server side is not something
we're going to tackle today.
But we're gonna deal with kind of the
typical front end responsibility, which is
asking for permission, getting that
PushSubscription, sending it to an API so
it's stored, and then the API is
gonna send notifications for you.
It's actually attempting to
send notifications all along,
we're just not setup to receive them yet.
>> Mike North: So, keep in mind that users
may have more than one push subscription
per browser.
You might see that you have
duplicate messages coming in,
and we'll talk about different
ways of combating that.
That's like for now just know
that you could always blow away
your development database and start
over and like you will be clean again.
And that development database
is in db/development.sqlite.
When you start your server again
a new one will be created for
you presided with all of the data.
>> Mike North: So you do not want to
do the server-side work yourself.
The reason is that if you've ever built
something like this where you're either
doing native push notifications or
sometimes if you've ever tried to
integrate with something like Intercom,
while Intercom is an excellent product.
It's inherently hard when you're
passing stuff off to another service,
something may go wrong inside that service
and you're not watching their logs,
you can't see what's going on.
You kind of throw stuff
off into a black hole and
hope that something happens on
the other end as a result of that.
This is why you want to use a library for
this,
they can validate stuff
before it's sent out.
You don't wanna be just
manually crafting HTTP
requests to talk to
the push server directly.
>> Speaker 2: So,
>> Speaker 2: Could you talk about
the flow a little bit?
Are we talking about this back-end
API actually talking to the,
let's assume that there's a Mozilla or
the Google's PushService.
And then that service is actually pushing
that subscription over to the browser,
and the service worker is listening to it?
>> Mike North: Exactly.
>> Speaker 2: Is that what you meant?
>> Mike North: So here's the flow again,
and it's good to make sure
we make this point clearly.
The first part of the flow
is we request permission,
we basically ask for a subscription,
for this push subscription object.
On the critical path to that promise
resolving is the user must click, yes,
I wish to allow like the site
to send me stuff, right?
It reject if they say no.
So once we have those
subscription objects,
just those JSON objects with
the keys in the endpoint.
We use those as a mechanism to
send data to this PushService.
And the PushService sends it to
the appropriate browser to the appropriate
service worker and an event will
be fired on that service worker.
Similar to the fetch event that we've been
working with, but it's just a push event.
So you get it there, you get a push event,
does that make sense?
All right, let me go forward.
>> Mike North: Great, so use a library,
here's how we receive the message.
Looks a lot like fetch AddEventListener,
push and there's the event.
And this push event has
a property on it called data and
that's where you'll find
your push message data.
You'll note that I can
call data.text on it,
it looks a lot like the way we
process response objects, right?
.text, .json, the difference
is this is not promise based,
it's synchronous and there is no
restriction on using it more than once.
These aren't like, you don't have to
do all of this chaining together.
But a similar set of
methods are available, so
you can decode it into JSON if you wish.